- [Instructor] One of the most common ways
to authenticate an application in Enterprise
is through the use of LDAP.
So why do enterprises use LDAP
other than Microsoft Active Directory on premises
supports it.
LDAP or Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
is a lightweight user authentication directory structure.
It is built in natively into many operating systems
and of course there's standalone implementations as well.
One of the biggest benefits of LDAP is the fact
that it's interoperable among many different
operating systems and components.
In fact, its services are exported
to many of those components so that they don't natively
have to support authentication,
which in an Enterprise setting is exactly what we want.
Because LDAP is lightweight it's also highly scalable,
which again is another benefit when you're running
a distributed workforce across the globe
and all of those Enterprise systems
need to share the same directory structure.
Now Spring Security LDAP
is not a very hard project to learn.
The base project is spring-security-ldap.
It offers full support for all native LDAP operations
that you would need outside of authentication.
And while we're going to focus primarily
on the authentication routines,
it's good to keep in mind that you have access to LDAP
outside of that use case.
Spring Security also provides adequate support
for password-hashing that most LDAP implementations
also support.
Now, the paradigm that we will use to learn
Spring Security with LDAP is going to be as follows.
It's going to be very similar to what we saw
with basic and forms-based authentication.
LDAP authentication still leverages
the authentication manager builder
that we have been configuring
in our Security configuration class.
Now, I want to talk a little bit about how we're going to use
LDAP in this chapter.
We're going to use an embedded LDAP server
that's part of the Spring dependency management structure.
You don't have to use the embedded LDAP server
if you don't want to.
You can use something like OpenLDAP with Docker
or built into your OS if it's available, like it is on mine.
That's actually how I do most of my LDAP work
when I'm running locally.
But again, in this example
we're going to use the embedded LDAP
'cause it's easier for you and we're not really focused
on LDAP as much as the Security constructs from Spring.
Now you may be asking yourself,
well I've got access to Active Directory,
can I just use it for the purposes of this demo?
The short answer is you can.
It's a little bit different and we're going to talk about
some of those differences later on.
However, it's important to note
that Active Directory is not LDAP,
but it can provide authentication routines
through an LDAP API.
Both of them are based on a directory structure
and it's very similar, but they're not the same.
And we should be really clear on that.
With all that being said, let's jump in.